To complete the culvert design, roadway overtopping should be analyzed.  A performance curve showing the culvert flow as well as the flow across the roadway is a useful analysis tool.  Rather than using a trial and error procedure to determine the flow division between the overtopping flow and the culvert flow, an overall performance curve can be developed.

The overall performance curve can be determined as follows:

(Step 1)  Select a range of flow rates and determine the corresponding headwater elevations for the culvert flow alone.  The flow rates should fall above and below the design discharge and cover the entire flow range of interest.  Both inlet and outlet control headwaters should be calculated.

(Step 2)  Combine the inlet and outlet control performance curves to define a single performance curve for the culvert.

(Step 3)  When the culvert headwater elevations exceed the roadway crest elevation, overtopping will begin.  Calculate the equivalent upstream water surface depth above the roadway (crest of weir) for each selected flow rate.  Use these water surface depths and equation 5.3.2 to calculate flow rates across the roadway.

## Q = C d L(HW) 1.5         (5.3.2)

Where :

- Q = overtopping flow rate (ft 3 /s)
- C d = overtopping discharge coefficient
- L = length of roadway (ft)

HW = upstream depth, measured from the roadway crest to the water surface upstream of the weir drawdown (ft)

Note: See Figure 5.3-3 for guidance in determining a value for C d .  For more information on calculating overtopping flow rates see pages 39 - 42 in HDS No. 5.

(Step 4)  Add the culvert flow and the roadway overtopping flow at the corresponding headwater elevations to obtain the overall culvert performance curve.

Figure 5.3-3  Discharge Coefficients for Roadway Overtopping

<!-- image -->